downtown Denver Colorado is a vibrant
and growing urban community yet with
everything that the city has to offer
something is still missing the stated
goals of the Lutheran Church Missouri
Synod Rocky Mountain district includes
an lcms congregation for every 25,000
people yet the city center of Denver
home to 77,000 people currently has zero
lcms congregations and the city as a
whole is lacking 10 congregations to
meet the populations needs without a
doubt we need to be intentional about
starting new churches in denver colorado
yet starting new churches in an urban
context create some unique challenges
for years the predominant model of
church planting began with buying land
and building a place for the church to
meet this model of church planting which
is high cost no matter where you go
dramatically increases when planting in
an urban setting with the limited funds
available the traditional approach to
church planting simply isn't feasible in
the urban setting these realities push
us towards alternative and yet
biblically faithful models of
congregational life it's not about
traditional or contemporary organ or
drums it's about treating the city like
a foreign mission field and asking
ourselves how can we faithfully be the
people of Christ in the city in part
this means that Sunday morning worship
will not be the primary public face of a
new urban congregation instead it means
equipping Christians to interact with
non-believers sharing the difference
that Jesus makes in their lives it means
creating forms where non-believers can
ask questions and discover answers it
means the people of God taking the
gospel to the cities coffee houses
businesses brew pubs art galleries and
parks promoting a culture where the
faith of Christians is ignited through
word and sacrament so they are enabled
to live out their vocation to live out
their faith in the home in the workplace
and in their community to live as the
body of Christ within the context of
their lives